[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: We have now introduced all
the new concepts you would ever need to
ever develop any app ever.
No, that's actually not true, but
we've introduced every concept that we're
going to introduce in this workshop.
So from here on out this is just gonna be
a giant review and we're just going to
code up essentially a very basic
version of Twitter/ It's not going
to have any concept of users or followers
or re-tweets or anything like that.
It's gonna be more like Secret,
if you've ever heard of the Secret app,
that people are just going to post
little anonymous tweets out there.
So we have an entire app just coded for
you that you can look at here.
And the entire thing is already finished
and ready to go if you wanna look at it.
>> Speaker 2: Cuz I have a quick
question about request.body when
were that comes from or going from.
>> Brian Holt: Sure, let's go ahead and
take a look at that, request.body.
We refer to it here in posting.
So right, request.body username,
request.body password.
So if we look at the posting.JS right
here, I'm setting up a username and
password kind of like
payload with J Query, right?
Now the server side needs
the ability to access that.
It does it through the body.
So if I called this like user, right?
I would have to go back and
change this to be user.
So it's just kinda this
contract of how the client and
the server are going
to talk to each other.
Does that make sense?
Okay.
So let's talk about our
project really quick.
I'm going to go over the client
side development of it, and
then I'm going to hand it off to
Nina to finish off the node portion.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so
If you haven't already cloned it,
this is the address for that.
And here essentially are the requirements,
like imagine the product team coming to
you, you're going to build this app,
and saying here, we need this, and
it's up to you to solve that problem.
So we're going to write
a server in node.js,
the server will serve the HTML,CSS and
JS necessary to run our server.
It's going to accept a GET of the latest
servers, meaning it's going to accept
an AJAX request to pull
down all the latest tweets.
It's going to accept posts that
we're going to put out there, so
that we can post new tweets.
And then, for each new tweet,
the server will
attach the time of when it was posted,
right?
So, you can like, this was posted
yesterday, at 5 o clock, or
this was posted ten minutes ago.
So those are our basic requirements,
then we're going to create
a webapp that's going to make
an Ajax request to get new tweets.
It's going to have the ability to
accept user inputs via POST, so
that people can tweet new things.
And we'll display in a pretty way those
tweets when the server loads, as well as
after you post a new tweet, it's going
to add that tweet onto that page.
Things that we are not going to do,
there's going to be no database to this,
right?
So if you restart your server
your tweets magically disappear.
So obviously this is not
a really complete web app.
You need some sort of persistence, right?
And we're not gonna have any notion
of user follows, re-tweets, or
anything like that.
This is just purely anonymous tweets.
So I'm gonna start here with the web app.
>> Brian Holt: So let's, essentially, what
we're gonna do is we gonna go over here in
node, or in app, so
this entire app lives in app.
So the first thing you gonna wanna do.
>> Brian Holt: Is if you're just
here following along with me,
you gonna have to do npm install with
package.json Mine are already installed,
so it's not going to do anything.
But if you do not have it installed,
it's gonna split out its whole log.
Okay.
And now you should have
a node modules which will
have body-parser and express.
All right.
Cool.
>> Brian Holt: So.
We're gonna be working purely
in the public directory.
>> Brian Holt: We're
gonna have index.html.
>> Brian Holt: And it's gonna be pure and
simple html, right?
Don't worry about the charset.
We're gonna have a link at the top or
a title at the top,
like on the very top tab, right?
So if you're talking about
title like right here.
It's gonna be called Tweeter, okay, and
here we're going to load in
some Google fonts, right?
I get kinda sick of using
the default font all the time,
so there's a thing called Google fonts.
If you're not familiar with it,
you just search for Google fonts.
They're essentially a bunch a free
fonts that you can use on your website.
We're just going to use this
top one right here, open sans.
Okay, we're going to load that up top and
that's just loaded by css style sheet, and
then we're going to load style.css which
is a style that we've written right here.
Okay?
We actually haven't really talked about
this so far, but
this is how you load external stylesheets.
You put a link tag on the top,
there's an href which is essentially
pointing to where your stylesheet lives.
In this particular case,
it lives in the same directory.
So we're going to tell
it just load style.css.
It lives in the same directory.
Pretty simple.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
That's our head tag.
Now we're going to go into the body tag.
And in the body type we're gonna
have an h1, it's gonna say Tweeter.
Okay.
It's got a tweet container, actually let's
go ahead and just like look at this and
then we'll come back and
discuss how it actually is working.
So.
>> Brian Holt: We're in app,
and I'm gonna say nodemon
app.js
>> Brian Holt: So
now we should just be able to go here,
close this out.
Okay.
This is the basic styling and such.
>> Brian Holt: And these
are the different tweets, essentially.
Okay?
>> Brian Holt: So we're gonna have, this
is the say something part of it, right.
So this is gonna be this part right here.
Or you can actually type in something and
tweet it out.
Okay.
It's gonna replace all
that we talked about.
That that's a grey text in the background
and it's gonna have a class
if new text input and Id that we're
gonna reference later in the JavaScript.
Okay and then a button this
kind allow them to tweet.
Okay, then we have this div right
here which is called tweets.
We're then going to later fill this tweets
with the tweets from the server, okay.
We're loading jQuery,
we're going to load our tweet.js.
Notice that this order actually is
important that JQuery comes first and
then comes our tweet.js because our
tweet.js which is this js that we written
is going to reference JQuery.
Therefore, JQuery must be available for
tweet.js to work.
Okay.
So let's go into tweet.js this
is JavaScript that we are going
to have written.
>> Speaker 3: So could you talk about
why those JavaScript includes are at
the bottom, instead of at the top,
with the CSS?
>> Brian Holt: Definitely.
Good question.
It may seem a little weird
that the CSS goes to the top,
and the JavaScript goes at the bottom.
The short answer,
is that it's a best practice.
It's just something that you do,
because it's the best thing to do.
Now, the reason why it's
the best thing to do,
is that when you load a content, you
don't wanna load ugly un-styled content.
And so you want your CSS to load
before your html finishes loading.
So that when your content loads for
this the first time it's already pretty.
Right?
It's not so,
it loads with like no style and
then all of a sudden everything
just magically looks better.
It's a bad user experience.
Okay?
But we want all of our
pretty styling to load, and
then we want all of our JS to run.
So we don't want our
page to be load slower
because the JavaScript has to
load first before it can render.
And the browser's dumb.
It's just gonna go down line by line.
It's like, okay,
I'm gonna do this and wait.
So if you have your JavaScript up here,
it's gonna see like I'm gonna load all
my JavaScript which doesn't really make
much sense anyway because your stuff
isn't there to be interacted upon yet.
So again short stories, it makes your
page load faster if you do it this way.
Okay, good question.
So the first thing that we do when you
load the page is we're gonna do a GET
on /ajax, which Nina will talk
about what that actually is.
But notice that this is different
from like the Reddit API,
which we had a full URL for, right?
/ajax is actually on the same
server as where this index.html.
It's a relative path, right?
>> Brian Holt: So it's going to
load ajax from the same server.
And then here you have the success
function here that's going to
cause append new tweet with
these tweet data items right.
And in the tweet data item, there is
a tweet.text and there's a tweet.time.
So we haven't really talked about this,
a really common way of keeping time in
programming is essentially
it's called epic time,
epoch time,
I'm not really sure how you say that.
E P O C H.
It's seconds since January 1, 1970.
>> Brian Holt: Yes.
In this particular case
it is milliseconds.
Often it is just seconds though.
But just make sure you're aware
of what we're talking about.
Either seconds or milliseconds.
Anyway.
So it's just a big number, right?
So I mean, it's a huge number right now.
Think of how many seconds of the past
in the past almost 50 years, right?
Yeah, so that's what's this is doing.
This is taking a time in
the seconds since 1970 and
it's just turning it into,
if you look over here
a nice little like well formatted time
that actually makes sense to humans.
That's so what that's happened there okay.
And then we're just wrapping it in a bunch
of html which we then have styled okay.
And then I realize that I've actually
called this append new tweet and
later I called it prepend.
I call prepend.
Which you imagine append puts it at
the end prepend puts it at the beginning.
But I did that because you want the most
recent tweet to be at the top, right?
You don't want to have to scroll down
to actually see your new tweets.
So that's why we use prepend.
Okay.
Questions about that so far?
So here we're calling a click
listener on the tweet ID,
so let's go look at the tweet ID.
Which is here, id tweet.
>> Brian Holt: Okay so
every time that button is clicked,
it's gonna send out an ajax request.
It's gonna post to ajax.
Notice that there's,
we have a get on ajax right here.
And we have a post on ajax right here.
But on the server,
we've actually separated those two out.
Nina's going to talk about that.
We're going to send JSON.
And we're going to tell the server, hey
server, I'm sending you JSON, just FYI.
And then we're going to
send it to Jason.stringify.
We seen that before, we're taking
an object and making it a string.
And, we're going to send a tweet,
which is going to have the value of,
right, yeah it's over here.
Whatever is in here.
So we're gonna tweet
whatever comes out of here.
That's what that payload's
gonna have right here.
On success it's gonna get back data.
Data's actually gonna be a new tweet
of this tweet that you've sent that
you're gonna get handed to the server,
the server's going to essentially hand
it back to you so you can display it.
And then you are going to call
the append new tweet, and
here you will just clear out the value.
So just so you can see how this works,
so this is my new tweet.
Okay, you click tweet.
Reaches out to the server,
the server then hands it back to you and
pre-pends that new tweet right here.
Cool, any questions about
how the JavaScript works?
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
So, now we have style.css,
talked about box-sizing, right?
We're doing border box just
to make everything easier.
Like I said I put this on every CSS
file or every CSS project rather.
Body, we're gonna give it a font
family of Open Sans right?
That's the one we're loading in by Google.
And then here we have sans-serif
sometimes people are not
able to load external fonts so
we give them kind of a fall back, right?
Everyone has a sans-serif font
on their computer guaranteed so
you say if you don't have open sans
available please use a sans-serif font.
We're gonna set the text color
to a nice un-harsh black.
And if we don't do this,
this margin 0, let's just change that.
I'm sorry,
that doesn't work in CSS, does it.
So let's just take it out.
If we take this out,
notice that like right now,
this border goes all the way to the edge.
If I refresh the page now, it actually
won't push up against the border.
So you have to have that margin 0 or
else it won't push up against the border.
So again, now it'll push up
against the border, okay.
Leader-h, that's gonna be
that thing at the top, right.
It has a background-color of black and
it has a color of this is like
a really like an un-harsh white.
Okay so it had a padding
on it which is essentially because of
this nice black look around it right.
If it didn't have that padding around
it would just be like really flat and
in fact let's just take a look.
Okay yeah so like it has, like it just
kind of pushes up it's kind of ugly.
That's not what we're going for.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
Tweet-container.
So that's gonna be these
things right here.
We give them a nice border-radius.
I don't think we've looked at that before.
But look at these, they have nice,
little rounded corners.
Fine spect element on that.
>> Brian Holt: So, tweet container,
so border radius right here.
If I take it off,
notice that it has pointy corners now.
That everyone likes nice
friendly round corners.
So, just gonna throw those up there.
Has a width of 80% of the screen.
Notice it doesn't push
all the way to the edges.
It actually just sits
there nice in the middle.
The auto centers it.
And I'm pretty sure.
So we do this overflow:hidden right here.
Remember we talked about
the great collapse and
how you have to sometimes
clear it with clearfixes.
So this tweet button is
floating to the right.
And if you take an overflow hidden off
the container's not actually aware
of how that flow is supposed to
play into the document flow.
So if you tell overflow
hidden it will reset it and
say, okay this is actually
supposed to fit inside me.
So that's what that does.
>> Brian Holt: Let's look
inside a tweet container now.
Tweet time, giving it a smaller font size,
make it italic right?
So now it's actually leaning a little bit.
Color's gray because
it's not the focus of it.
This is not design school.
I'm not a designer.
But margin bottom there.
Tweet-body.
Just made the font size bigger,
essentially.
And I think we've essentially gone
through pretty much the style.
Let's talk about this up here.
So I actually made the input
a little bit more fancy right?
Like this blue border is not typical.
>> Brian Holt: Where is the focus?
Okay, so we have new-tweet-input with
the 100% height, border, border-radius.
All those things look familiar.
Then we have thing called focus.
It's called a pseudo class, right.
So right now, it's not focused.
It has a grey border.
As soon as I click on it,
it is now focused.
So you can have it actually apply
different CSS when it's focused on.
There's lot of different states for
this and I'll show you one here for
Tweet as well right?
As soon as I start hovering over it,
it gets lighter.
As soon as I push it down, it gets darker.
That's all done with CSS and
let's take a look at how that's happening.
So btn-tweet,
it has all these styles right here.
None of those should look
very intimidating to you.
But hover, we move from this font color to
this font color which is maybe in
color green, lighter green and
then when it goes active, which just means
I'm pushing it down, it goes darker green.
Questions about that?
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
And like that's essentially it for
the client side code.
>> Brian Holt: It would be kind of
an interesting exercise for you to,
after you've watched this video, or after
this, to go back and recreate just this.
Not looking at the code I've written, but
instead doing it kind of your own way.